## MD-SDVRP
This is the experimental code for the paper **"Approximation Algorithms for the Multiple-Depot Split Delivery Vehicle Routing Problem"**.

### Dataset
We have three distinct types of data: **P Set**, **SD Set**, and **G Set**, where the P Set and SD Set are sourced from the paper by Lai et al[^1], which are generated by adapting benchmark instances of the MD-VRP and SDVRP. 

The P Set contains 18 instances, and the SD Set contains 63 instances, split evenly with 21 instances(SD1–SD21) for each depot count $k \in \{2, 4, 6\}$. All instances satisfy $q_v < Q$. Notably, for each $k$, instances SD2–SD21 possess the tight capacity property $mQ - \sum_{v \in J} q_v = 0$.

To evaluate performance on larger instances, a higher number of depots, and scenarios where $q_v \geq Q$, we generate an additional dataset of 20 instances (the **G Set**) using an MD-VRP generation method adapted from Harks et al. (2013)[^2].

Parameters

- **Instance size combinations** (number of customers $|J|$, number of depots $k$):   
(500, 10), (750, 12), (1000, 14), (1250, 16), (1500, 18).

- **Vehicle capacity $Q$**:  100, 200, 300, 400.

- **Number of vehicles per depot**:   Integer uniformly sampled from $[4, 100]$.

- **Customer demand**:  Integer uniformly sampled from $[1, Q + 100]$.

- **Coordinates**: Customers and depots are located in the Euclidean plane, with coordinates uniformly sampled from $[-1000, 1000]$.
- **Random seed**: 2333.

The generation method is in **data_create.cpp**.

### Environment
1. C++ 17;
2. cmake VERSION 3.5.0

### Run instructions
Create build folder

	mkdir build
Then use the following commands to generate the executable:

	cd build
	cmake .. 
	make 
Finally, execute the program using the following command, which requires three arguments:

	./program_name input_file_path output_file_path algorithm_name

An example is:

	cd ./build
	./MDSDVRP "../../dataset/G_set/g1.txt" "../Result/G_set/g1.txt" "Match" 

If you want to run all datasets, you can use **run_all.py**.

### Algorithm description

 Both Alg.1+ and Appx require computing a minimum-weight perfect matching; for this purpose, we use Blossom V (Kolmogorov 2009)[^3] to improve computational efficiency. And the code is in fold blossom.
 
 To solve the MCMPF, we use the cost-scaling algorithm (Goldberg and Tarjan 1990)[^4] provided by the LEMON C++ graph library (Dezső et al. 2011)[^5]. It executes highly efficiently, despite having a weakly polynomial running time of $O(|V|^2 |E| \log(|V| \cdot c_{\text{max}}))$, where $c_{\text{max}}$ is the maximum edge cost. 

 Moreover, we impose a runtime limit of 3600 seconds for all algorithms in our experiments.

#### APPX
The code for the APPX comes from Lai et al. However, since their original code only supports the cases of k = 2, 4, and 6, we have modified their code. Additionally, the minimum-cost perfect matching part now uses the Blossom V algorithm.

#### GREEDY
The code for the APPX comes from Lai et al, which is adapted from a classical greedy heuristic for VRPs (Mole and Jameson 1976)[^6].

#### ALG1+_ALG2
Please notice that, in our code, **Match** corresponds to **ALG1+** in the paper, while **GW** corresponds to **ALG2**.

### Expect output

##### APPX and GREEDY
The algorithm first outputs the total cost and the running time, then the number of vehicles used. Next, the output format is: depot ID, customer ID_demand , ..., depot ID, the total demand of this route, and the total distance traveled. The output format is like:

    The minimum cost is:923.6399476957
    The run time is: 3600.0481500000 (s) 
    The optimal route and corresponding demands serviced: 8
    1   81_6   69_36   78_14    4_13   80_2   51_13    2_10   70_6   28_16   29_16   54_14   59_18   27_17   13_19    1    total service:200
    84.7349747741

##### ALG1+
The algorithm first outputs the computation round, then the total cost, followed by the output of the solution. The output format is: depot ID, customer ID_demand , ..., depot ID, along with the number of times this solution is executed and the cost of this solution. Finally, the total running time of the algorithm is output. The output format is like:

    compute rounds : 132462
    The minimum cost route is : 496063.0116227161
    The Route is: 
    depot is : 13   272_7 877_204 864_49 518_40 depot_13 ( X 1) the tot demand is : 300
    ......
    The running time is : 3600.0184788020 s

##### ALG2
The algorithm first outputs the difference between the total demand capacity of all vehicles and the total user demand ($mQ - \sum_{v \in J}$), then outputs the number of feasible solutions, followed by the same output content as ALG1+. The output format is like:

    remain_capacity is: 6818
    valid solution is : 1266
    The minimum cost route is : 557375.9958601521
    The Route is: 
    depot is : 15   851_10 43_139 822_51 depot_15 ( X 1) the tot demand is : 200
    ...
    The running time is : 3600.9280797040 s

[^1]:Lai X, Xu L, Xu Z, Du Y (2023) An approximation algorithm for k-depot split delivery vehicle routing problem. INFORMS J. Comput. 35(5):1179–1194.
[^2]:Harks T, Konig FG, Matuschke J (2013) Approximation algorithms for capacitated location routing. ¨ Transp. Sci. 47(1):3–22.
[^3]: Kolmogorov V (2009) Blossom V: A new implementation of a minimum cost perfect matching algorithm. Math.Program. Comput. 1(1):43–67.
[^4]: Goldberg AV, Tarjan RE (1990) Finding minimum-cost circulations by successive approximation. Math. Oper. Res. 15(3):430–466.
[^5]: Dezso B, J¨uttner A, Kov ˝ acs P (2011) LEMON–an open source c++ graph template library. ´ Electron. Notes Theor.Comput. Sci. 264(5):23–45.
[^6]: Mole R, Jameson S (1976) A sequential route-building algorithm employing a generalised savings criterion. J. Oper.Res. Soc. 27(2):503–511.
